[Music]
hello Namaste Salaam walekum sas3 Akal
welcome back to another session with
your washer fatwa rava calm today I am
going to show you another favorite of
mine I am very surprised while I was
checking the list of the dishes I did I
did not make mutton rogan josh dear
friends this is one of the tastiest and
super awesome dish from Kashmir you know
this is the dish what I learned from the
master chefs only in five Stoughton's
but I have seen in not of restaurant
they serve mutton rogan josh they just
serve the mutton curry and call it Rogan
juice and he doesn't have the punch what
Rogan Josh must have you know a lot of
people add onion tomato and all this in
making me Rogan Josh but what I'm going
to do today I'm not going to add onion
not tomatoes not even yogurt you know if
you want you can add a little bit of
yogurt but I'm not even going to add
yogurt so for this the spice is what we
are going to add is Java 3 that is maize
cinnamon green cardamom cumin seeds
black cardamom and saffron you know I am
going to make a powder of these four and
add Wireless I black energy or the black
cardamom and cook the meat with it now
here I have got one end of tablespoon of
chili powder not any chili powder
kashmira chili powder that is what will
give nice red color ginger powder but
one tablespoon of fennel seed product
and we're going to add this in this
quantity and that will give a very nice
tasteful gravy now to make it very
simple I'm going to mix all of these
masalas together so you will understand
so here I've got hing powder you know
hing is a must for mutton rogan josh and
in this and Kashmiri chilli powder
ginger powder and fennel seed powder and
in this add water and mix this into a
watery paste and now we are going to add
in a blender I'm going to add the cumin
seeds green cardamom cinnamon sticks and
Java 3 that is made
I'm going to powder and add it so make
it to a nice coarse border key you know
you're not going to cook it in the oil
this mutton rogan josh needs to be
cooked in nice dashiki
when this dashiki heats up we're going
to add buddy watching that is black
cardamom that will give a nice flavor to
this dish and here I have got meat this
is a nice lamb meat and all these meats
have born manly that is a shanks of meat
you know and take all the pieces which
are like shanks and then these is get
cooked like this with a bone in the
gravy becomes nice and very flavorful
now here the ghee is heated up and my
black cardamom is a nicely roasted in
this had pieces of this meat and we're
going to cook this meat in this key and
you have to cook till the meat becomes
slightly Brown that is when you get a
very good flavor to the gravy you know
it is better always to fry the meat like
this and then cook it on a slow flame
you know now look at this meat this is
nicely slightly browned and you know
this method of cooking is used not only
in India but throughout the world when
you roast the meat like this it is
called Maillard effect what it does is
it caramelizes the outer coating of meat
and gives a very nice flavor to this
dish now this is all ready now in this
you're going to add the mixture the
paste of the chili powder and soft
powder fennel powder into this and you
can also add little of saffron
you know this will also give a very nice
flavor to this dish and pour in lot of
water to cover the meat you know because
I wanted to show you I'm cooking in such
a big pan otherwise I would have taken a
little smaller pan like this but you
know to make sure that you see what's
happening in the pan I took a vessel
like this now put the lid on and cook it
on a slow flame for at least one hour to
one and half hour another easy
method of if you don't have patience to
spend one and half hour of slow cooking
easy method is just pour this into a
pressure cooker cook it and again
transfer it back in this pan because you
want this masala salt also to be cooked
you know slow method of cooking like
this what it does is it hurts the water
because we added little extra water in
this that water will be operated and
when the sauce is done it has to be
liquidy but all the masalas need to be
cooked and here is the muscle of cumin
cardamom cinnamon sticks and when you
are cooking in an open method like this
when this is cooked for like half of the
time that's almost 45 minutes then we
are going to add this but if you do in
the pressure cooker you know you will
have to add it after the meat is cooked
after cooking for almost 45 minutes now
look at this gravy this is nice the oil
is also slightly floating on top
and you can see this meat the lamb bones
were not visible when we started but
look at this now after 45 minutes they
coming off the bone
that's when you know that the meat is
getting nicely cooked now here is the
masala Porter of maize that is Java 3
cinnamon cardamom cumin and all this and
then we are going to add to this this is
what will give a nice flavor to your
Rogan Josh just add all of this mix it
and we are going to cook this for
another 30 minutes at least build till
the time the meat is become nice and
tender the meat should be soaked much
cooked that it should be coming off the
bone and also and it is properly done
this meat will literally melt in your
mouth that is when you got a first fit
and a super awesome tasty Rogan Jose so
dear friends you don't need to add curd
no tomatoes no onions just with this
masalas you will not believe how much
awesome flavor this is already giving so
let me put the lid on and if you need to
add a little water you can keep adding
little water till you get the desired
consistency after cooking it for almost
another 30 minutes
the flavor of Rogan Josh has spread all
over and you can see how the Rogan
means this oil that is floating rain red
in color look at this that is what makes
this how awesome dish super to look at
and tasty also and Wow you know if you
make it right
this will taste super fantastic it is so
good trust me make it the way I've shown
you and it will be super fantastic dear
friends this is something magical this
is something super awesome but you use
nice lamb shanks to make it and take it
easy on the ginger powder and you will
get nice perfect Rogan Josh you know
while we were in the college they always
used to add rotten joke but when I was
in the industry they told no no no
rotten joke in this the color should
come from the Kashmiri chilies the
flavor the aroma should come from
saffron and some people also add
cockscomb is a kind of flower which
gives also a nice coloring some people
add that but for me this is super profit
I am going to switch off the flame and
I'm going to enjoy it
hot along with my nan Wow
now look at this Rogan Josh love what
flavors along with this
hmmm so much perfectly cook and you know
especially when I cook meat like this I
want the meat to be fully nice and
tender but still retain some of the pink
color that is the reason why I did not
add turmeric but some people are if you
want you can add turmeric also but dear
friends wow you don't eat with basmati
rice are nice moduli nam like the one
what I'm eating huh this is super and
the nice sauce is also nice sticky and
super tasty dear friends I hope you
enjoyed today's session of learning how
to make this awesome mutton rogan josh
from kashmir but do not forget whatever
is all about inspiring others to them so
please post your recipes and cooking
tips and whatever outcome so others can
build it from your great cooking thank
you
[Music]